I went through the Piper and Laney report that is linked to the right and also in the Link Library. Picked out some quotes I found interesting. The quotes are pasted from a pdf file created from a poor scan, so there may be some typos where the program misinterpreted letters. I think I corrected most. Sorry for the long length, but I didn't have the energy left to break it up into smaller bites.

Excerpts from GEOLOGY AND METALLIFEROUS RESOURCES OF THE REGION ABOUT SILVER CITY, IDAHO, by Piper and Laney 1926, published by the Idaho Bureau of Mines.

Francis A. Thomson, head of the Idaho Bureau of Mines and Geology, writing in the preface:

While on a professional visit to the area in 1905, and still more during a second visit in 1919, I was impressed with the improbability of certain of the ore bodies having been exhausted, and, on the second occasion, the conclusion was reached that Silver City should be included in the program of field work of the Idaho Bureau of Mines and Geology at the earliest possible date.

From Piper and Laney

p 1 The report presents ample justification for the conclusion that further search for ore bodies promises success

p 7 referring to the wagon roads of the region "None of these routes of travel is at present feasible for the heavy duty truck service which would be a prerequisite for an extensive revival of mining activity in the region."

p 53 Finally, in 1876, after the mines had been actively worked for 11 years, the financial support for the enterprises was swept away by the failure of the Bank of California. The crash was complete, property after property was closed and abandoned to sheriff's sale, many of them never to be reopened.

p 53 One significant occurrence of the time, before the history of this first period is brought to a close, may be mentioned. The plan of a deep tunnel under War Eagle Mountain, to open its entire vein system, was proposed in 1868 by a group of mine operators, and by Mr. George C. Robbins, then superintendent of the Owyhee Mining Co. Organization plans were never completed and the plan slumbered for three decades before it again crystallized.

p 55 Other activities were by no means wanting. On War Eagle Mountain, the Poorman mine was reopened in 1895 by the Poorman Gold Mines, Ltd., the second London company to enter the field, and it operated with reported financial success until 1903. The Cumberland mine, close to the old Golden Chariot, operated for a brief period during 1898, but the properties which had been famous in the seventies remained idle.

p 57 Gerry (17: p. 395) has recently estimated that Owyhee County during the period of 1863-192.3, produced gold valued at $21,674,700 (1,048,515 fine ounces) and 24,529,112 ounces of silver. These estimates differ slightly from the totals reached by the writer, but it is impossible to reconcile this difference without knowledge of the source of Gerry's data. It will be noted that the ratio of silver to gold varies greatly from year to year, reaching a minimum of 1.3 in 1887 and a maximum of 143.9 in 1920. This extreme variation is due to the great annual range of production from a large number of orebodies, whose maximum and minimum gold silver ratios are even more unequal than the extremes of the annual ratios. In the absence of complete tonnage and production records for each individual mine, it is useless to attempt to prove or disprove that the gold to silver ratio varies systematically from place to place over the region, or from one level to another, in any given mine.

p 64 The veins might be logically classified, as was done by Lindgren (24b: p. 158) into silver veins and gold-silver veins, but a genetic classification seemed to be more suitable to the present report. Besides, since all the veins produce both the precious metals, they are in reality all either gold-silver or silver-gold veins, and one place in an ore may produce dominantly silver-gold ore whereas in another place from the same shoot the order of the metals on the basis of value may be reversed. However, on the basis of weight or mass of the respective metals they are all silver-gold veins, the average ratio being approximately one ounce of gold to thirty ounces of silver for the total recorded production from the region.

p 66 That this type of vein is persistent is evident when one realizes that the Oro Fino-Golden Chariot vein has been actually mined for more than 3000 feet in length, and that where intersected by the Sinker tunnel, some 2500 feet below the surface, it is as strong as in the upper levels.

p 67 All of the larger veins, such as the Black Jack-Trade Dollar on Florida mountain, as well as the Oro Fino-Golden Chariot, the Poorman, and others on War Eagle mountain, are remarkable for their continuity along both strike and dip so far as developments have gone. The Black Jack-Trade Dollar vein has been developed for 6000 feet along its strike and for 1800 feet in depth without notable decrease in strength. The Oro Fino-Golden Chariot vein has a development along its strike of nearly 4000 feet, and is strong and well developed where the Sinker tunnel cut it, 2500 feet below the outcrop....On War Eagle Mountain are many .minor cross veins of much lesser magnitude, but even these, though in many instances very small, are surprisingly persistent.

p 71 It must also be remembered that the operators carried on very little exploratory work ahead of the demand for increased ore supply. The maps of the mines and such of the old workings as were accessible very clearly indicated that many of the operators took out such ore as could be obtained with a minimum of development work, and when it was gone, they announced that the ore was exhausted and closed the mine. In fact, it is believed that never before nor since has so little real exploratory work been done in so important a mining district. This being the case, it appears to the writers that the facts do not at all justify the current, beliefs as to the exhaustion of the mines.

p 89 The veins are true fissure veins, developed in fissures produced by profound diastrophic forces, and are certain to extend to depths far below the possibility of mining...We conclude, therefore, that the veins will probably extend to unknown but great depths.

p 92 By way of summary, it may be stated that the field and laboratory studies of the Silver City ores have shown: (1) that the exceedingly rich bonanza ores in the upper portions of the ore shoots were formed by the surficial enrichment of already rich primary bodies. and, (2) that the primary ores are from good to high-grade ores and that they may be expected to continue as good ores to depths much greater than any thus far reached in the district.

p 132 Two veins dominate the system, the Oro Fino-Golden Chariot and the Poorman. Their relation to the second period of diastrophism has already been discussed in the section dealing with the regional structure. The first of these veins strikes N. 4° W. on the average, and dips eastward 80-90 degrees, although westward dips are not unknown. The system may be traced, with some interruptions, from the Great Western Mines Company's property (Pl. II, No. 55) southward for more than 1 1/2 miles to the Afterthoughtclaim (Pl. II, No. 68), and it retains its normal character in Sinker Tunnel (Pl. II, No. 56), more than 2,000 feet below the outcrop.

p 134 The Poorman mine was discovered in 1865 and rapidly gained prominence as a producer of silver. Browne states that it "is, perhaps, for its size the richest deposit of silver ores ever discovered"

p 136 He also reports that about 100 feet below the surface there was found a homogeneous solid mass of the light ruby silver, proustite, which weighed more than 500 pounds and displayed, in part, the planes and angles of a crystal. Browne concluded that there is probably no second example of a similar mass of crystalline proustite being taken from any mine.

p 136 This is equivalent to a gold:silver ratio of 1 to 37.5 by weight. The ratio of gold to silver was 1 to 5.6 in the bullion produced from the intermediate levels.

p 136 On the 450-foot level, the lowest in the mine, a body of ore, 12 inches wide and 60 feet long, yielded $35 per ton, the bullion produced containing 1 part gold and 1.1 parts silver (7). This ratio is somewhat lower than that which characterizes any other ore deposit of the region, so far as data are available, and, if authentic, fully refutes the former belief that the ore from the Poorman mine was predominantly a silver ore quite distinct from others of War Eagle Mountain.

p 138 The mint report of 1885 (10e) credits the mine [South Poorman] with a production of $6,976, the bullion carrying approximately 1 part gold to 4 parts silver by weight.

Note: There are a number of references to gold: silver ratios. They vary greatly, as can be seen from the examples above.

p 146 The property of the War Eagle Consolidated Mining Company comprises eight patented claims which cover the Oro Fino-Golden Chariot vein throughout that portion which was worked by the mines of the Oro Fino group. The company was organized to explore that production vein system at depth. In 1899 an adit, Sinker Tunnel (Pl. II, No. 56), was started from the south slope of War Eagle Mountain at an elevation of approximately 5,450 feet, about 2,030 feet below the collar of the Ida Elmore shaft (Pl. II, No. 58), and driven toward that shaft. In 1902 a vein, believed to be the one sought, was encountered at a distance of 6,177 feet from the portal, and a drift was turned southward, although it is not known how much exploratory work was done on that level. Conflicting reports exist as to conditions found, and authentic information is not at hand. At the point the adit penetrated the vein a raise was started. Apparently, adequate survey had not been made to determine the position of the adit with respect to the base of the old shaft, although at the time the work was started those shafts could have been opened with relative ease. Subsequent operations were a blind groping for the old workings above. Levels were turned from the raise at l00-foot intervals and short exploratory drifts extended. In 1905, when the raise had been pushed to a height of 622 feet, it was pronounced unduly hazardous by the State Mine Inspector' and further work was ordered suspended until the hazards were removed. At this time the top of the raise must have been about 400 feet below the bottom of the Ida Elmore shaft, and only 150 feet, or thereabouts, below the Golden Chariot, although their relative positions in the horizontal plane was not determined. Shortly afterward the enterprise was suspended without further work. In the present decade a lease on the project was acquired by the Sinker Tunnel Mining Co., of Nampa, Idaho, and exploration of the adit level was inaugurated. Drifts were driven on two veins, and a third was disclosed by an extension of the adit so that the total exploratory work on this level was about 2,600 feet. Workable ore was not developed, although specific data are unattainable. In 1923, this enterprise collapsed and has remained dormant since.

p 147 Sinker tunnel constitutes an ideal site for mining and milling operations, with ample dump ground, ample water supply for milling purposes within two miles or less of the portal, a minimum snow hazard, and a route of approach which could easily be made usable by trucks the year round. The physical property at the portal includes office building, boarding house, boiler house, and blacksmith shop, with auxiliary transformer house, powder magazine, and warehouse. All are in good repair. The power plant is equipped with an Ingersoll-Sergeant 14 by 17 1/2-inch duplex compressor, driven by a 75-horsepower induction motor, with steam plant for emergency operation. A Green NO.4 rotary blower serves the needs of ventilation. Pipe threading machine, timber saw, 12-inch lathe, and auxiliary equipment of various sorts is present. An electric transmission line extends to the sub-station of the Idaho Power Company at Silver City. The tunnel was penetrated for more than 2,000 feet by the writer, but further ingress was impossible without ventilation. With the exception of a cave near the portal, the adit was in excellent condition the entire distance and could easily be conditioned for further use.

p 148It has already been shown in the preceding discussion of ore deposits that the zone of primary ore bodies of the Silver City region may be expected to persist without great change in tenor to a depth considerably below any attained by past mining activity. If it is true that the ore developed on the lowest levels of the mines of the Oro Fino group is hypogene or primary, which seems to be likely, and if it has the reported tenor cited in the preceding discussion, there is considerable promise of future activity.

The promise is sufficiently great to justify closing the gap between the Sinker tunnel raise and the old workings above, so that with drainage and ventilation solved, these workings can be entered, the vein sampled and examined, and development extended downward as conditions may warrant. Obviously, however, a careful preliminary survey becomes an essential part of such a program in order that the raise may be extended with safety and certainty. The Golden Chariot shaft was sunk in the granite wall rock, striking the vein at the ninth level (29e p. 189), below which it has been sunk about 350 feet. It is probable that this shaft, although caved at the collar, is in good condition for the greater part of its depth, particularly below the water level. Opening and unwatering it sufficiently to permit accurate surveying should not, if the expected condition prevails, be an extremely difficult task and should not be shirked. As has been pointed out already, the base of the shaft and the top of the raise are not much more than 150 feet apart vertically and perhaps even less horizontally, if the available data are at all trustworthy, This program offers the most expeditious and economical solution of the problem. Should this development prove the existence of workable primary ore, the Sinker tunnel should be extended to crosscut the entire vein system to the Poorman, since the maximum of economy and efficiency may be gained by working the system as a unit.

p 162 The re-examination of the Silver City mining region, upon which this report is based, has established two fundamental facts: first, the veins of the Silver City region have contained large persistent ore bodies of medium and rather uniform tenor; second, there is no reason to expect that the ore bodies will fail to continue in depth.

The Oro Fino vein is one of the two major veins of WEM. It is over 1.5 miles long, varies from 3 to 25 feet in width, and extends to at least the depth of the Sinker (2500 feet) where it is still well developed. The Oro Fino vein produced over $7M back when gold was $20/oz, or about $600M at today's prices. And there is plenty of gold and silver left.

Some quotes from the Piper Laney report (linked under President's DD):

That this type of vein is persistent is evident when one realizes that the Oro Fino-Golden Chariot vein has been actually mined for more than 3000 feet in length, and that where intersected by the Sinker tunnel, some 2500 feet below the surface, it is as strong as in the upper levels.

All of the larger veins, such as the Black Jack-Trade Dollar on Florida mountain, as well as the Oro Fino-Golden Chariot, the Poorman, and others on War Eagle mountain, are remarkable for their continuity along both strike and dip so far as developments have gone. The Black Jack-Trade Dollar vein has been developed for 6000 feet along its strike and for 1800 feet in depth without notable decrease in strength. The Oro Fino-Golden Chariot vein has a development along its strike of nearly 4000 feet, and is strong and well developed where the Sinker tunnel cut it, 2500 feet below the outcrop....On War Eagle Mountain are many .minor cross veins of much lesser magnitude, but even these, though in many instances very small, are surprisingly persistent.

Two veins dominate the system, the Oro Fino-Golden Chariot and the Poorman. Their relation to the second period of diastrophism has already been discussed in the section dealing with the regional structure. The first of these veins strikes N. 4° W. on the average, and dips eastward 80-90 degrees, although westward dips are not unknown. The system may be traced, with some interruptions, from the Great Western Mines Company's property (Pl. II, No. 55) southward for more than 1 1/2 miles to the Afterthoughtclaim (Pl. II, No. 68), and it retains its normal character in Sinker Tunnel (Pl. II, No. 56), more than 2,000 feet below the outcrop.

And from The Idaho Geological Survey Report:

The workings are on the northward continuation of the Oro Fino vein, which is a nearly vertical, north-south-trending quartz vein in the granitic host rock. Several other mines are on the vein, which has a length of at least 1.5 miles.

Statham (1998, p. 11) summarized the following history of the Oro Fino:
The Oro Fino Mine was the second vein ... discovered in the Owyhees, July 1863.
The first assay ... of the Oro Fino indicated over $7,000 per ton, mostly in gold.
In a chute of ore near the surface, the Oro Fino yielded to Tim Regan, one of the
mine[']s owners, $78,000 in less than 3 months. Mr. Regan purchased the Oro
Fino for $5,000 and later sold it for $750,000. This is one of the reasons that Mr.
Regan was the first of two millionaires to leave Silver City and settle in the Boise
Valley.
The Oro Fino Mine was developed through a shaft that was about 350 feet deep
and operated continuously from 1866 to 1876. There were a number of
production buildings, including a shaft house, covered dump tracks and a very
picturesque settlement at the Oro Fino. The mine operated at intervals for many
years and in 1885 and 1886 saw modest profits. This mine produced, throughout
its life, a total of about $ 2,000,000. . . .
The Oro Fino-Golden Chariot vein extends form the Great Western Mine, north
of the Oro Fino, south for about 1.5 miles to the Afterthought Mine. The vein
varies from 3 to 14 feet wide and retains its character at a depth of 2,000 [feet]
below the surface exposures. The mines that are on the vein comprise what is
called the Oro Fino Group and include the Oro Fino, Ida Elmore, Golden Chariot,
Minnesota, South Chariot and the Mahogany. These mines were developed from
shafts located on small claims with the upper levels producing high-grade ore and the lower levels maintaining good values in the ore. The mines of the Oro Fino
Group were rich producers and actively worked until the crash of 1875. Although
there was some work done in these mines for the next 20 years, they never went
into serious production after 1875. During the life of these mines the Oro Fino
Group produced an estimated $ 7,000,000.


Skinner Toll Road
 

SILAS SKINNER'S OWYHEE TOLL ROAD

LONG BEFORE THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT TOOK OVER THE RESPONSIBUTY FOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE. MOST IDAHO AND OREGON ROADS WERE NATURAL ROADS OR TOLL ROADS. NATURAL ROADS SUCH AS THE OREGON AND CALIFORNIA TRAILS REQUIRED LITTLE IMPROVEMENT OR MAINTENANCE. MANY MINING CAMPS, HOWEVER, INCLUDING FLORENCE, IDAHO CITY, ROCKY BAR, AND SILVER CITY, WERE INACCESSIBLE EXCEPT BY PACK TRAIN UNTIL TOLL ROADS WERE CONSTRUCTED. THIS STORY, WRITTEN BY STACY PETERSON IN THE SPRING 1966 ISSUE OF IDAHO YESTERDAYS, REFERENCE SERIES OF THE IDAHO HISTORICAL SOCIETY NUMBER 427, DESCRIBES ONE OF THESE CENTURY- OLD TOLL ENTERPRISES, THE OLD SKINNER TOLL ROAD

The Old Skinner Toll Road was one hundred years old on May 19, 1966. The approaching centennial has sparked a wave of renewed interest in this historic road, which in its heyday was one of the most important in the West. Extending from Silver City in the Owyhees down Jordan Creek seventy miles to its junction with the Owyhee River at Duncan's Ferry, it is rich with legend and history, and strewn with historic sites. It was conceived and built to provide the vital southwest outlet for the new and vastly rich mining district of the Owyhees ; and the saga of The Road is also the tale of its builder, Silas Skinner, from the Isle of Man. Gold was first discovered in the Owyhees in placer form, by a party of adventurers out from the crowded Boise Basin on a prospecting trip-or, some say, in search of the fabled lost Blue Bucket mine; twenty-nine men, with over sixty horses. They did not find the Blue Bucket, but they came on May 18, 1863, to a creek flowing out of the Owyhee Mountains on whose bars they found grains of the precious metal so numerous that they called the place Happy Camp,' and the creek for their leader, Michael Jordan, and soon that creek gave its name to a valley and a town. Eventually such names as War Eagle, Poorman, Golden Chariot, Ida Elmore, and many others came to be heard in mining talk world-wide. For the Twenty-nine had discovered a hoard which would attract investors from Europe', would help to pay for a war, and would enrich the nation for forty million dollars in fifty short years: The preliminary placer diggings soon gave way to the big business of hard- rock mining, and the rich lodes buried deep in the granite of War Eagle and Florida Mountains toppled world records: There was a great stir in Washington about a mint for Boise, to serve the whole Northwest mining area: But politics killed that dream, and Boise settled for "the handsomest assay office in the nation", while the mint went to San Francisco. So the fabulous harvest of the Basin and the Owyhee's had still to find its way on the backs of mules and horses picking their way among the lavas and over the deserts and streams to the headwaters of the Sacramento, or to Portland and the Ocean. The only certain outlet from the Owyhee mines at this time led northeast across the Snake and Boise Rivers to the Oregon Trail, there to join the pack-trains and freight wagons from Boise Basin. This involved first a fourteen-mile plunge down the northwest side of War Eagle Mountain, following the rocky bed of Reynolds Creek to the Snake River Valley, where a doughty pioneer named Carson had a ranch and corrals, and supplied meals and shelter to travelers. Ten miles farther on they crossed the Snake, by a man- powered ferry. Thirty miles of barren desert lay between them and the Boise River, and another primitive ferry, which served the city of Boise. Joining the packtrains and wagons from the Basin rnines, Owyhee packs followed either a northwest course to Umatilla and Portland, where they met the south-bound boat to San Francisco, or went south and east by the Oregon Trail to join the old immigrant route across northern Nevada and California, and finally south to the docks at Sacramento and by boat to San Francisco enroute to the Eastern seaboard or European ports. Both these routes were roundabout, slow and costly, and merchants, promoters, and the various governmental agencies had sought earnestly a more direct approach to the Owyhees. In fact, by the fall of 1863 several trails were in use, north from Sacramento and across the White Horse plains in southeast Oregon, as far as the Owyhee River. There they ended in confusion. The only crossing on the Owyhee was a ford and hand-operated ferry near the mouth of Jordan Creek far and wide this was known rather infamously as the Owyhee Crossing. Beyond it lay the meadows of Jordan Valley, boggy in Spring and Fall, impassable in Winter. Forty miles up Jordan Creek a daring soul named John Baxter had squatted on a ranch in a beautiful cove, and kept a sort of roadhouse and small general store. Beyond this the creekbed wound steeply upward twenty-two miles into the Owyhee". Here every pack, foot-passenger, and vehicle pioneered its own path. Nothing went beyond Baxter's in winter, but during several months in spring.

No one had yet invented the slip or the fresno, and Skinner and Company built their roads by hand. Though the press reported at this time that the demand for horse-and ox-teams greatly exceeded the supply, Skinner had his own oxen, which he pastured in the meadow along the right of way. In spite of the rough terrain, there were many stretches where construction consisted only in dragging a heavy timber along a slope, breaking down the sage, and rolling the lava out of the way. It is possible to follow these stretches still, across low-lying hills and grazing land, where parts of the Old Road now run through fenced fields and pastures, and serve as work-roads. At least fifteen miles of it, in and near the town of Jordan Valley, lie forever preserved beneath the blacktop surface of Highway 95, or the gravel of near by County and market roads. In two places Skinner and Company found it necessary to hew their road from the lava flank of a highland. Approaching its southern terminus at the Owyhee River, they encountered a lava hill which a modern earth mover would slash through; but here the Old Road comes down off a low divide into the valley of Jordan Creek and turns abruptly north, to stretch upward for an eighth of a mile on a ten per cent grade along the hill-side, then over the crest and down to Duncan's Ferry near the junction of the Creek and the Owyhee River. Here the road was cut from solid lava with pick and shovel, or sliced cleanly through a sandstone outcrop. Chunks of lava weighing a ton or more were blasted out and dragged aside by oxen to form a wall along the outer edge of the road, where they still lie. Again, near the opposite end of the Road, fifty miles to the east, climbing steeply toward Wagontown, the builders avoided a dangerous horseshoe gorge by turning off Jordan Creek to follow up its tributary, Trout Creek, and slashing along the flank of another lava barrier to top out on a stormy ridge. Six miles farther on, the Road dipped again to follow the Jordan up into the heart of the Owyhee camps. This Trout Creek grade is still passable most of the year for jeeps and trucks all the way to Silver City. Meantime two other problems demanded Silas Skinner's attention. First, his plan had expanded to include the northeast route from the Owyhees to Boise and the Basin. Of the already existing Reynolds Creek road, the first two miles, extending from Ruby City to Booneville, on Jordan Creek, was a free public road. The next fourteen miles, down Reynolds Creek, was a toll-road, franchised in 1864, and already in bad repair. To provide a dependable outlet for commerce, Silas Skinner formed a partnership with H. C. Laughlin, and bought this road. Having thus acquired another fourteen miles of difficult road to maintain, Skinner and Laughlin set about making their road usable. Precipitous and exposed on the cold northern slope of the mountain, carved from the rocky bed of Reynolds Creek, now on one side of the stream, now on the other, it was always hard to maintain, and always subject to complaint in the press. However, it was soon reopened, presumably under the Carson franchise, and a toll-collector put in charge. The first proved incapable, and according to the Avalanche Silas Skinner fired the wretch, and hired another, before leaving for Boise late in December on other business. He had as yet no franchise to operate any road or to collect tolls. Idaho had become a territory in March, 1863, following the discovery in 1860 of gold in the Clearwater area, and the capital was located in nearby Lewiston. The Boise Basin discovery of gold and silver, and the opening of the Owyhee lodes, attracted such an influx of population to the southern counties thut in 1864 the Second Session of the Territory, Legislature moved the capital to Boise. It was to the Third Session, sitting in the new capital, that Silas Skinner made application late in December of 1865 for franchises for his two toll-roads, both nearly completed, and ready for operation. Skinner stayed in the capital, watching the progress of his applications through the legislative mills, for the political attitude was not favorable to private roads. The long fight against private ownership and control of roads had already reached a considerable clamor, with Stephen Fenn of Nez Perce County its very vocal spearhead in the Legislature. However, on January 3, 1866, he received both franchises, duly approved by Governor Lyon.

Meanwhile his Reynolds Creek Road was closed for five days in direct violation of his parting orders. The Avalanche took explosive notice, but nevertheless declared Mr. Skinner is a man of high principles, who intends things to be done right, but he cannot be everywhere at once. These early franchises make interesting reading, and throw much light on the thinking of the times. They are wordy, detailed, full of after-the-fact requirements, and in some cases almost petulant. Silas Skinner must have had previous reliable sources of information, for, after all, the Road was near completion, and the Reynolds Creek road was in operation, and both met all specifications. The first franchise grants to Silas Skin- ner, H. C. Laughlin, their heirs, successors, and assigns, the exclusive right and privilege to establish and maintain a toll-road, beginning at Booneville and running along the route of the toll-road already owned by them, or within two hundred yards thereof, to the ranch on Reynolds Creek known as the Carson Ranch. The road shall be kept in as good repair as the season and snows permit, continues vaguely the franchise, and they shall build substantial bridges and culverts along said route, and when needed to grade such road, which shull be of sufficient width for wagons to pass. Skinner and Laughlin were required to post bond of $1000 with the County Auditor within sixty days, and to complete the roud within one year. The schedule of toll extended from five cents per head for sheep and swine to a three dollar toll for a four-horse team and one loaded wagon. The County Commissioner, might reduce the rates at any regular meeting. or purchase the road upon proper appraisal after five years. The term of the charter was fifteen years. The second franchise provided for the new and crucial outlet from the Owyhees southwest. It granted to Silas Skinner, Peter Donnelly and James Jordan the right to build and operate a toll.road commencing at Ruby City at the intersection of Main Street in Ruby City with the toll.road running to Booneville, and running from thence by the most practicable route down Jordan Creek to the boundary between the Territory of Idaho and the State of Oregon. The Organic Act of March 4, 1863, which established the Territory of Idaho, placed its western boundary on a meridian running through the mouth of the Owyhee. But since much of the area had never been surveyed, the Owyhee River was generally accepted as the boundarv. Thus Skinner's road was built to the Ferry, and some forty miles of it lay in Oregon. By this fortunate error the major purpose of the Road was served, and the traffic block in Jordan Vallev and at the Crossing was eliminated. The franchise stipulates that three fourths of that part of the road between Ruby City and Boonevil1e, the congested urban section, shall be made at least sixteen feet wide, and not more than fifty yards, in anyone place, shall be Jess than sixteen feet wide. Moreover, private roads for private use only may be built on the right-of way, between mines and mills, but may not interfere with Skinner and Company's road in such a way as to damage it, or prevent the collection of tolls. For this more extensive project, a bond of $2000 was required, and one year was allowed for its completion. Tolls were approximately twice those on the Reyn- olds Creek road. According to the press of the day, the booming commerce of the West was hanging on the progress of Silas Skinner's road. The long rivalry between the Columbia River and the Sacramento routes to Idaho had been gradually resolved in favor of the latter. More and more traffic was now going up the Sacramento to Chico and Red Bluff. and thence by a number of overland routes to Oregon, to converge at the Owyhee Crossing. Weekly, in 1866, the Avalanche reported increased travel, greater volumes of freight, more immigrants heading for the Owyhee and beyond to the Boise Basin. A typical report appeared on April 14. Three pack-trains numbering about seventy-five packs and loaded with staples arrived in Jordan Valley April first, and in Ruby City last week. One week, to cover twenty- two miles! On April 21 the Sacramento Union was quoted to the effect that: A train of wagons built in Sacramento to carry 4500 to 6000 pounds each, and drawn by four animals, will leave for Idaho; expect to reach destination ahead of all competition. One hundred horses, eight mules, eight yoke of cattle, twenty-five wagons and thirty men. The enthusiastic editor exclaimed that all this only illustrates what can and will be done when Skinner's road is finished; all kinds of travel can come into the heart of the Owyhee mines the year round from Nevada and California. Two weeks more, at the furthest. But Skinner and Company were not ready; they issued an immediute correction. "Silas Skinner says," announced in the Avalanche on April 28, "the road from Baxter's Ranch up Jordan to this place will be passable for loaded wagons on and after the lOth of May, The grade is light all the way, and only twenty miles to the Valley." Finally, on May 19, the long-awaited announcement appeared : (The Ruby City and Jordon Valley toll-road is now in good order for teams, empty or loaded. By this road it is just twenty miles to Baxter's Ranch, and the only direct or even passable one to the valley and the Owyhee crossing on the Nevada and California roads. It is built on the north side of the creek, thus giving it the full benefit of the sun to keep it dry. Mr. Skinner informs us that the Company will keep it in good traveling order the entire year.)

Meanwhile Skinner and Laughlin had brought the Reynolds Creek road up to specifications. They established a toll-station just below Ruby City, to command both roads, and controlled all traffic through the Owyhees. Silas Skinner and his partners were actively in business. The Central Pacific Railroad was building eastward toward its junction with the Union Pacific, and trains were daily met by stage-coaches and freighters "at the end of the rails, wherever thut might be." Captain Mullan was making a second gallant try for control of the stage business in the area, supported by a mail-contract held by his brother-in-law, and outfitted with a fine new line of coaches and horses from the East.& Hill Beachey had just bought what was called the Railroad Stage Line. The California Steam Navigation Company and the Central Pacific combined to subsidize the Idaho trade by hauling goods free from Sacramento to Chico, cutting rates to Silver City to an unheard-of ten cents per pound and the citizens of Sacramento were raising a bonus fund of $5000 for the first freight-train to carry one hundred tons of merchandise to the Owyhee mines by way of Truckee. It was a triumph for Skinner and Company, too, that even before the opening of the Road the Teamsters Association of San Francsico advertised special rates in favor of goods shipped to the Owyhees by way of Susanville and the Skinner Toll-Road.

Skinner's dream was now realized, as traffic of all kinds flowed freely from the Pacific to the Owyhees, over the Reynolds Creek road to the Snake, and beyond to Boise Basin and points east, north, and south,-even as an early advertiser had boasted, "to all parts of the world !". There was much complaint in the press and in legislative halls about the lax upkeep of toll-roads. Early accounts tell of stage- passengers lifting coaches across swollen streams, while trudging alongside through the mire. "But every gate was closed," concludes one such story, bitterly, "and the toll- keeper taking tolls as usual." David Shirk writes, however, that on the Skinner Road "It was customary, as well as an established rule, for one of the partners to go over the road once each week, looking after repairs and exercising a general supervision over the road." In winter a man and team went ahead of the stage each day, to make sure the Road was open. The personnel of the Company changed from time to time, but the name of Silas Skinner remained; the Road was known through-out the West as the Skinner Toll-Road.

In 1867, Silas Skinner left the Road and the toll-station in his partners' care and took ship from San Francisco for the Isle of Man, for a visit with family and friends, whom he had not seen for five busy years. He returned again in 1870, and there in the Parish of Andreas, in the Isle of Man, he and Ann Callow were married in Kirk Andreas, where for centuries Skinners and Callows had been christened, married, and buried. They returned to Ruby City briefly, but soon moved to the upper Jordan Valley, where they built their home beside a peren- nial spring at the side of the Road, near Trout Creek bridge, where the Road turns off to climb the Trout Creek grade. The home was also a popular overnight station on the Road before the climb up the mountain to Ruby City. The house is gone now, but the spring bubbles among: the willows, and the Road still winds along, preserved beneath the gravel of the County road.

While the mines prospered as never before, settlers flocked to the Valley. By 1869, a correspondent listed eleven fine ranches on Jordan Creek and its tributaries. Bands of sheep were not uncommon on the Road, and in 1869 Con Shea and his partners brought a herd of longhorn cattle from Texas, to revolutionize the industry of two states. School was held in an upper room of the State-Line House, until a schoolhouse was built nearby. Everyone prospered. Hay sold for $100 per ton. The prophsey made by a traveling reporter in 1869 came true: "Jordan Valley excites the admiration of all travellers . . . In a few years it will be a paradise." When in 1875 the sudden Bank Panic in San Francisco closed most of the mines, and the boom faded, it was replaced by the stable economy of the ranches and the herds, and prosperity continued unabated in the Valley. But here as elsewhere in the west, peace and prosperity faced constantly the twin dan- gers of Indian raids and highway robbery. Fort Boise had been established as a United States Army post in 1863, but pleas for government protection were largely ignored during the war years". Finally, in September, 1865, four permanent military posts were built along the Sacramento-Owyhee route. These ranged from Smoke Creek in California, Pueblo and Camp C. F. Smith in the Whitehorse country of southeast Oregon, to Camp Lyon, on Cow Creek. to guard Jordan Valley and the Skinner Road. The entire road is now protected by troops from permanent military posts, declared the Avalanche. Eight or ten men are on duty at each [stage] station. Camp Lyon was beautifully located, and just where it was needed. Actually, Camp Lyon boasted three Companies, with two lieutenants and one sergeant, but the protection was far from adequate. Soldiers were war-weary, and entirely ignorant, if not fearful, of Indian fighting. Women and children still huddled in fortified dwellings during Indian raids, while their men fought off the enemy. Soldiers seldom leave their quarters, said one caustic comment, "and while they sleep the Indians steal their blankets. . . " That was generally the result, when there were no citizens with them, comments Shirk. Sent out under command of a sergeant, they accomplished little.

Thus was ushered in the savage uprising of 1868, which raged up and down the Road, and the Valley, until General Crook, of the United States Cavalry, defeated the Indians and brought an uneasy peace which lasted ten years. In 1878 occurred a much greater uprising, involving many of the Northwest tribes which ended only with the dispersal of the remnants of the tribes to Reservations. Principal patrons of the Skinner Toll-Road during these turbulent years were the freighters and the stagecoaches. Freighters travelletl for protection in companies of ten or more, each team consisting of four to ten span of horses, mules, or oxen, and hauling at least two wagons loaded to capacity. From Sacramento to Ruby City, the trip took twenty-five days at best, driving ten to fifteen miles per day. Oxen were scarce and expensive, but were preferred to horses and mules for their great strength, their placid natures, and easy maintenance. Moreover, they lived well off the country. An ox-team might with care be driven two thousand miles in a season, and come through fat on forage alone. Especially susceptible to attack from both Indians and outlaws, the lumbering freight trains, loaded with provisions, had little choice but to camp in circles about their fires, post guards, and shoot first. There seems to have been little dependence on the protection of the military. One big outfit acdvertised in advance. We ask no escort from the government, but expect to protect ourselves from Indians and all other adversaries by ourown vigilance and energy. Pack-trains, usually laden with treasure from the mines, seem to have suffered little. The tribes had little use for gold and silver, and "the knights of the road would much rather face the United States Army than a train of hard-bitten muleskinners." As for the stages, one movie-type story illustrates their special vulnerability to outlawry. A company of fifteen persons conspired to rob all the stages plying between Elko and Pine, on the same day (in August, 1869) . Seven of the group were captured when one, perhaps a Wells-Fargo detective in disguise, confessed and named the others. All were found to have been station-keepers for the Stage Company, or ranchers who hud settled along the roads between the railroad and the mines in order to carry on the road-agent business unsuspected. Wells-Fargo guards often proved more effective than the troops; but the main reliance of the stager lay in a good road, a fast team, and straight shooting. Captain Mullan's fine new line made its first trip from Chico to Ruby City by way of the Skinner Toll-Road in July of 1866, in the record time of three days and five hours, bringing papers and mail which previously took 18 to 50 days. Coaches will leave every other day, continued the press notice, connecting with HiIl Beachey's line at Boise City. Fare, $60. The coaches are excellent, and time not exceeding three days. But careful searching of old files indicates thut this was the only trip ever made by the dashing Captain. In 1868, HiIl Beachey, a veteran of staging, owner of the Mullan Stage-Line, secured both the coveted mail and express contracts, and made a dependable service of staging to and through the Owyhee.

Stations on the Skinner Toll-Road, as elsewhere, were located ten or fifteen miles apart, a good day's travel for a fast team. Many were crude one-room shelters, while others resembled fortresses set in expanses of ranchland. All provided sheds and corrals for stock, access to water, and camping facilities for travellers. Frequently, staple provisions were for sale, and at least one station-master kept a well-concealed barrel of whiskey which he would uncover for a price. Provender was available for stage stock only, and in the early years forty percent of a freighter's load was stock-feed. Later, Jordan VaIley ranches supplied all the hay the travelling public required. Two historic Stations on the Road still exist. One, the Ruby Ranch, had been located in 1863 by Dr. E. W. Innskip and his partner Osgood, as a likely spot for a wayside hostelry. One of the most important stations on the Road, it was independently operated through fifty years by a succession of owners. Later occupied as a ranch-house, it is now rapidly falling into decay, though across the Road stands a well-preserved wooden barn built a century ago and still in use. A typical "fortified dwelling", built of lava blocks, with port-holes in every wall, the Ruby Ranch often served as a refuge during Indian raids. (It boasted separate parlors for ladies and for gentlemen), the latter equipped with the only bar on the Road, - a simple cupboard, till recently still to be seen in the crumbling ruin. Great fire- places heated the rooms, and the weary traveler was provided rest and food while the teams were changed. Sheep Ranch is the other site; circled by tall poplar trees, this handsome landmark, the picture of hospitality, still stands, twelve miles down the Jordan from the Ruby Ranch. It is owned by the Eiguren family, .and was recently occupied by them. Its rock walls are twenty inches thick, with numerous portholes and great stone chimneys. It was the only Home Station, or overnight stop between Silver City and Fort McDermitt. Meals were served, staple groceries and tobacco were for sale, and on the first floor were three tiny sleeping rooms for ladies. Upstairs, reached only by an out-side stairway, were quarters for men. Wells- Fargo maintained an office at the Sheep Ranch, and here was located the only telegraph station in Jordan Valley. This building is worthy of preservation as a museum of a century of history along the Road.

Even during the hey-day of the Road and of mining in the Owyhees, Silas Skinner seems to have foreseen the end of both. He began early to diversify his interests by investing in mines and ranchland. Later he brought from Kentucky the foundation of a herd of fine horses which he bred for, the carriage trade and the race courses of California. He also contracted annually with the city of San Francisco for one-hundred-fifty draft horses for use on the streets. William Skinner, in a series of interviews which appeared in the Argus-Inquirer of Ontario, Oregion, in 1951, provides data on the latter years of the Road. After 1873, he says, the Road was managed by E. H. Clinton, who had bought the interest of the Jordan brothers, Michael and James. Silas Skinner disposed first of the Reynolds Creek Road, retaining the station at Trout Creek and the section of the Road extending from Jordan Creek to Silver City. By 1878 Owyhee County had purchased all that part of the Road which lay in Idaho, from the State Line in Jordan Valley, through the Owyhees, and out to Carson's station "in the desert". In October, 1878 Captain Bachellor bought the Trout Creek Station, and the Skinners moved to a new ranch home further down the Valley.

As time passed, Silas Skinner became concerned about the education of his children, and established a new home in Napa Valley, in California. He moved his horse-breeding enterprises there, leaving William, a boy of fifteen years, to manage the Jordan Valley ranch. When Silas Skinner died in 1886, the family disposed of the California interests and returned to Jordan Valley, where the Skinners have been through the century an active force in the growth of the community which the first Silas Skinner opened to the world. With the growth of new towns in the lower Boise Valley, a more direct contact with the Coast was needed. Several routes were opened from Snake River through the hills, by- passing the dying mining towns, and joining the Old Skinner Road in the town of Jordan Valley. Finally, in 1944, the present Highway 95 was completed with Federal aid, and became a part of the national defense system. It follows from the town of Jordan Valley west on a section of the Old Toll Road. Silver City is now a well-known ghost town, included on the itineraries of many tourists, some of whom have been known to by-pass it when they find they cannot reach it by the Old Skinner Toll-Road. There is much of color and historic as well as human interest to be found along the Road, and it is to be hoped that before time obliterates its appeal, interested Idahoans and Oregonians will see that this is preserved for the enjoyment and enlightenment of future generations of Americans.


The great discovery of 1865 was the Poorman mine, on War Eagle mountain.[49] It was so named because its discoverers were without capital to work it. The ore was the richest known, and so easily worked that it could be cut out like lead, which it resembled, but with a tint of red in it, which gave it the name of ruby silver. 

But not until another important lode, The Morning Star, was located, October 14, 1863, did it begin to become apparent that the Owyhee mines would be noted primarily for silver. With these quartz discoveries came the towns--first Boonville and Ruby City, the placer communities, and after 1864, Silver City. When stamp mills were installed in the district beginning in 1864, their location made Silver City, rather than Ruby City, the leading mining town of the area. Two leading Boise Basin miners, J. M. More and D. H. Fogus, energetically developed the Orofino and Morning Star properties. Rock from their mines assayed extremely high in gold and silver, and by the fall of 1864, ore from their properties began to keep a number of different stamp mills busy producing a million dollars a year. Then in September, 1865, incredibly rich ore turned up in another magnificent War Eagle property called, somewhat imaginatively, the Poorman. A claim war stopped work on the Poorman after a production of only six days. But in those six days, surface operations by the hastiest methods yielded over $500,000 worth of ore. Litigation over title to the Poorman was finally compromised in the summer of 1866, and serious efforts began on the property. Fabulously spectacular Poorman ore specimens were displayed in Congress and in the Paris International Exposition of 1867 where they received a special gold medal. Additional major lode discoveries on War Eagle Mountain led to a full-scale underground claim war early in 1868, in which J. M. More was the leading casualty. But hostilities were suppressed, and the mines went on producing until the failure of the Bank of California, August 26, 1875, brought most work to a halt. 

Geology of War Eagle Mountain 

War Eagle Mountain is the eastern-most gold dome of the Owyhee Gold Trend, a 5-mile E-W trending mining area, which includes War Eagle Mountain, Florida Mountain, and DeLamar Mountain. The primary gold and silver veins on War Eagle Mountain are the "Oro Fino", "Central", and the "Poorman". 

The "Oro Fino" vein system is known to extend at least some 12,000 feet in an N-S direction and has been observed to vary greatly in thickness (0.5 to 25 feet) and mill grades (0.5 to 1.25 ounces). As is typical for this kind of precious metal bearing quartz system, several large "pockets" of very rich ore concentrations occur scattered throughout. These so-called "hot spots" are locations where mill grades of up to 25 ounces of gold per ton are encountered; with some areas showing grades as high as 90-300 ounces of gold per ton. General ounce ratios of silver to gold are 14:1. 

The "Poorman" vein system is identical to the "Oro Fino" vein system, but about 1,000 feet to the west, running parallel to the "Oro Fino". The "Poorman" vein is mostly silver. 

The "Central" vein system is a cross-directional vein at right-angles to the "Oro Fino" and the "Poorman" veins. Two sets of major precious metal deposits exist in the locations where the "Central" vein intersects the "Oro Fino" and "Poorman" veins. 

The "Oro Fino" vein system has (6) other major veins associated with it, while the "Central" and the "Poorman" have approximately (40) offshoots associated with them. 

The gold and silver bearing veins of War Eagle Mountain are steeply dipping to sub-vertical in altitude and are generally oriented in a NS to NW-SE direction. The textures, mineralogy and geometry of the veins all indicate that they are "epithermal" deposits. The effect of the so-called "hyper-enrichment" process undergone by the vein systems tended to produce multiple pockets of bonanza ore, or highly-enriched spots, which War Eagle Mountain is known to exhibit abundantly.

Ohyhee Map

 http://owyhee.idgenweb.org/places.html

 http://genealogytrails.com/ida/owyhee/bios/bios.html

 https://web.archive.org/web/20080207223331/http://www.patroloff.com/history.htm

 http://www.loc.gov/pictures/related/?va=exact&co=hh&sp=4&q=Idaho--Owyhee+County--Silver+City&fi=place&sg=true&op=EQUAL

http://www.newspapers.com/newspage/30588867/

http://www.newspapers.com/newspage/30583235/

http://www.goldandsilvermines.com/stunnel.htm

http://66.228.39.216/ir/SilverFalcon/messages?search%5Bpage%5D=396
